Television. This is a novelty in my early childhood and I have already mentioned the fire hazards, at least in our house, of the early sets.
The other limitation was the range of channels on offer, namely one, the BBC, and not even called BBC One, because, well, there was only one.
I don't know when we started to watch ITV or independent television to give it the full title, but I recall more American-made content and, of course, horror of horrors, adverts.
I've discovered that the Rediffusion Channel, the first independent television franchise, was launched in September 1955, but only in parts of the country.
Television Wales and the West, TWW, had to wait until January 1958 before we could be exposed to I Love Lucy, Sunday Night at the London Palladium, and toothpaste adverts, amongst other cultural treats.
Also, new TV aerials were necessary, and the older sets required adapting. I don't know if this applied to our own highly flambable model, but it's clear that the spread of choice was slowed by a number of barriers.
Apart from any cost of adaption, there was also a certain resistance to what some saw as low-brow, populist content, particularly American imports.
But this seems surprising given the influence of Hollywood in the 20th century cinema.
This resistance cannot have been very strong, because viewing figures published at the end of the first year had ITV programmes dominating the ratings, with only two BBC shows in the top 20.
Amazingly, one was Highland Fling at number 14, although I do remember later shows, and many were ITV ones, with Robin Hood, Ivan Ho with Roger Moore acting in the title role, and imported cartoons such as Deputy Dog and Popeye.
My early viewing was with What Should Mother, which I believe was on in the afternoons at around 4pm and was first screened in 1952.
There were five programmes on the five days. Four of them were puppet shows, and I can still remember the sequence. Monday afternoon was Picture Book, which I think must have been educational and for helping youngsters with reading, and probably a bit boring as I don't remember any details.
Tuesday was Andy Pandy, a somewhat wet character, wearing a seddy hat and a stripey, sordid jumpsuit. His sidekicks were a Teddy, I think named Teddy. These were unsophisticated days in mass media. See also Hammy the Hamster, really.
But he also lived with Loopy Lou, an equally inept rag doll. I'm unsure about the relationships, but I think they all slept together in a large wicker basket from which they bleary emerged at the beginning of each programme.
Teddy was my favourite, and at an early age I envied his tolerance in dealing with the other two. Whilst looking for an image to show you, I discovered that the programmes had been immortalised on a stamp, Andy and Teddy without Loopy Lou thankfully.
Wednesday took the madness up several notches with Bill and Ben the Flowerpot Men. Their insanity started linguistically, with an inability to speak clearly, with flobalob being the favourite word, with two other characters, a weed called, yes, weed, and a tortoise that I think was called Slow Coach, but appeared to be pronounced flobalob.
Their episodes always ended with a song asking was it Bill or was it Ben, that an insert some instant in the story. I guess to keep the youngsters' attention and develop reasoning skills, though this was after suspending all known five-year-old logic that people could be made out of flowerpots and talk gibberish.
Still, we had already been exposed to Punch and Judy shows on the beach or in the park with lots of high-energy mindless violence from the psychopathic Mr Punch, so the gentle nonsense of the Flowerpot Men must have been a relief.
The Flowerpot Men appeared to live in terror of the gardener who was never seen, but any suggestion of his arrival would have them jerkily bouncing on their puppet strings back into their two large flowerpots, presumably to avoid being cannibalised to pot on any bedding plants. It was all rather surreal but entertaining for me in those simpler times.
Thursday was rag-tag and bobtail, remembered by me as a gentle pastoral woodland adventure for a hedgehog, mouse and a rabbit, but a quick refresh on YouTube today has been quite a shock.
Now given that in the 1950s suburban South Wales the only hedgehogs to be seen were squashed in the road, except for my dad's Trillby Cemetery capture, see the earlier chapter on playing. Mice were not encouraged in our house and the last one was bitten in half by our dog after the catter refused to catch it.
Rabbits were most commonly seen hanging up outside butchers and our own rabbit ownership had been short-lived. Alarmingly the production team of rag-tag and bobtail had clearly used all three of these as inspiration for their characters. This production used glove puppets and the ropey ones they were too. They looked like they'd been reconstructed from roadkill.
Bobtail was particularly disturbing seeing we need to have the head of a much smaller rabbit graft onto the bulbous torso of a large one. The storyline in the episode I recently watched on YouTube, for the purposes of research of course, was a particularly improbable one involving dowsing for water with pointy sticks and a bunch of baby rabbits covered in mud.
Now I don't want to disparage the dowsing community. Maybe it's now become respectable and it's never a good idea to upset people who go about with their pointy sticks, whatever their beliefs. Although Bobtail somewhat gave the game away by announcing the ground was a bit squishy underfoot at about the same time the dowsing stick pointed down, I can't vouch whether future episodes have the furry mammals dressed as druids or carrying out Ouija board sciences but there's plenty more to it.
I don't want to be the only one who's been given material like that to employ. Friday ended the week on a more realistic note with the wooden tops, an everyday story of a wooden puppet family and their spotty dog. My research tells me that only 26 episodes were made so they must have been an early example of the staple of BBC programming, the repeat.
If only they spun to the script writers of Rag Tag and Bobtail, I'm sure they could have extended the series using more improbable storylines. The episodes that I watched for the purposes of research wasn't an epic storyline and was mostly about baby wooden top throwing his blanket out with his pram several times.
The family looked to be standard mid-century nuclear family on which later classics such as The Simpsons call on for inspiration. There's Mummy and Daddy Wooden Top, the twins Jenny and Willie, Baby Wooden Top and Spotty Dog. Mr and Mrs Scruppet are embryonic Ned Flanders and there's a buttercup, a cow.
The episode I've watched for research was so mind-numbingly boring that I'm not sure I can find out any more, at least not until I've exhausted the entire flower pot men back catalogue that is vastly superior in invention and dialogue.
My favourite character, Spotty Dog, appears and tramples the flower bed in four-wooden leg way and shows a distinct aversion to the idea of a bath, but an impressive mastery of the English language, both in understanding but also in canine vocalisation.
The other surprise is that a song, or more of a chant really, that I remember from my childhood, the iconic What Are We Having For Dinner Today? Sawdust and Hay for Dinner Today. It had its origin in this very episode. Still, on the whole of the five programmes, I'm favouring Bill and Ben as the top choice. It has legs, albeit ones made of flower pots.
Other contemporary programmes are probably as creaky and I remember some of their names without actually recalling many details. Early ones are Mr Pastry, a clown, Billy Bean and his funny machine, Muffin the Mule, Bengo the puppy and of course Sooty and Sweep.
Music at the time was another world as Radio 1 and the pirate radio stations were not to arrive until well into the next decade, the mid-1960s, which was a whole new world. Music exposure was mostly via the light programme, later to become Radio 2. So my musical education came via Force's Favourites and Uncle Mac on Saturday mornings.
Most of the memorable records, to me at least, were comedy records. The Three Billy Goats Gruff, Sparky's Magic Piano, later to be ripped off by Cher amongst others, Bernard Cribbing's Hole in the Ground, Lonnie Donoghans' My Old Man's a Dustman, Tommy Steele's Little White Bull, Max Spygrove's Toothbrush Song as well as songs from the musicals.
Other gems of the era included the Chipmunks, high-pitched cover songs and the Runaway Train and the Big Rock Candy Mountain, which contained the improbable lines of the cigarette trees and lemonade springs and cops with wooden legs and bulldogs with rubber teeth. The song was written in the 1920s but Radio played a later version by Burla Ives. Weird stuff.
Pop music from Elvis, Cliff and the Shadows, etc. was still in the future for me. It's interesting that the comedy records may be prepared my generation for our pop music to come later.
An interesting fact is that Adam Faith, one of the early successes, copying Bugdy Holly's hiccuping vocal style, was the first number one record for the Parlyphone record label and was their only pop act, having previously concentrated on comedy records.
Of course the label was to experience much more success a few years later with some little known outfit of Scousers produced by George Martin.
Years later, whilst eloping my way to the bar in a theatre interval, I was aware of pushing past a small blonde man to get to the bar before the second act. As I turned to apologise I recognised him as Adam Faith. It is to my eternal credit that I resisted saying to him, what do you want?
Of course it's easy to forget now that TV, the magical post-war entertainment for the masses, existed in shades of grey on temperamental small dim screens and was only transmitted for a limited number of hours a day.
But it was through this medium, along with occasional glimpse of pathé news at the cinema, that we were exposed to views of the world beyond our hometown.
It would be hard to believe as a child seeing world famous sites such as the University of Bostrais, Trooping the Colour, the Houses of Parliament, St Peter's Square or the Eiffel Tower, the White Cliffs of Dover, the Derby or Chelsea Flower Show, all of which has adults many years of experience first hand. These seem far off visions brought only via the TV screen.
Mentioning the White Cliffs of Dover reminds me of an appropriate white lie I once found myself telling.
I was taking a small party of American visitors from our US company owners from our Surrey office back to Brighton after a tedious day of meetings, when one of them asked me whether the White Cliffs of Dover were really white and how far away they were from where we were.
A short detour to Rottingdean allowed them to get out and take photos of the Sussex 7th Sister cliffs, which, not wishing to spoil their joy, I assured them were the famous White Cliffs of Dover.
The next day I had to swear colleagues in the office to secrecy, so for that day the Dover cliffs could easily be glimpsed from Brighton. The visitors were pleased and maybe honesty isn't always the best policy.